# S3 Buckets

These are the s3 buckets used for storing and staging HBCD data in preparation for the release. Note that the contents and purpose of these buckets is subject to change as we refine processes for the flow of data between UMN and LASSO systems. Access to these buckets is strictly limited to consortium members who require access to perform tasks in support of the release.

## s3://midb-hbcd-prerelease-bids
This bucket contains de-identified data that is fed to CBRAIN for processing. One thing to be aware of is that there will be a mix of 'good' and 'bad' images in here (as defined by UCSD QC). Then the derivatives data is in session-specific derivatives folders (i.e. `derivatives/ses-V02/bibsnet`/, `derivatives/ses-V03/bibsnet/`). Right now this bucket mostly contains subjects/sessions that LORIS has indicated should be a part of the release. In the future this bucket is likely to contain data for a larger number of non-release subjects/sessions as well.

## s3://midb-hbcd-lasso-data-release-staging
This is the 'staging' bucket that we populate prior to sending data to LASSO. The derivative data can be found under the latest release number, e.g. at the time of this writing we are working off of 'beta release 14.8' and the derivative data for this release can be found under `s3://midb-hbcd-lasso-data-release-staging/br14.8/hbcd/derivatives/`. The raw BIDS data is contained in the root BIDS directory at `s3://midb-hbcd-lasso-data-release-staging/br14.8/hbcd/rawdata/`. These folders will only contain output data that is intended for the release. For HBCD we are not including Nibabies/XCP-D outputs for ses-V03 data, so you should only find ses-V02 outputs for those pipelines here. 

In comparison to the prerelease BIDS bucket, the BIDS data here only includes images that are deemed 'good' (as defined by UCSD QC). When data is being copied from the prerelease BIDS bucket to this staging bucket, the derivative data is merged across sessions. This isn't relevant at the moment for XCP-D/Nibabies, but this is something you may notice if you look at the outputs of other pipelines.

## s3://midb-hbcd-main-pr 
This bucket contains all the LORIS-curated BIDS data for the full HBCD study. 
