# HBCD and Secure Computing Environment Governance

**Version 1.0**          
**2.1.2023**        
**Author**: Reed McEwan, University of Minnesota, Health Sciences Technology, HDCC Lead

The Data Coordinating Center (DCC) team leading data integration needs for the HEALthy Brain and Child Development (HBCD) Study is leveraging the UMN SCE (University of [Minnesota Secure Computing Environment](https://confluence.ahc.umn.edu/display/CE/Overview)) for ingestion, transformation, and storage of protected participant information (names, addresses, dates of birth, identifying pictures and videos, abstracted health records, etc.). The SCE has been established by the University of Minnesota (“University”) through its Clinical Translational Sciences Institute to provide a secure environment that can consume, aggregate, transform and enrich clinical and protected data for research and operational analysis. SCE resources reside behind a network firewall that is separate from the rest of the University of Minnesota (UMN) networks and follows strict UMN technical security requirements for receiving, storing and analyzing clinical data.

The SCE architecture provides robust, secure, and validated capabilities that bring together data from disparate sources (including, but not limited to, electronic medical records, patient and participant registries, REDCap, standalone datasets, and regular data feeds) to create cohesive datasets for research and operational analysis. The architecture’s core consists of a data warehouse design and is managed following recommendations by the Healthcare Information and Management Systems Society (**HIMSS**), Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) regulations. It adopts leading practices and perspectives on building integrated data repositories from leading national centers. The architecture is also regularly reviewed by the Center of Excellence for HIPAA Data at the University of Minnesota to ensure its compliance with HIPAA regulations.

The key components/modules of the system are: data integration, data security model, data enrichment (patient/participant matching, terminology and ontology management, data de-identification), and data extraction. The clinical architecture as well as all data governance policies and procedures for all of the UMN secure computing environments are reviewed on a regular basis by a governance committee. This committee is led by the University’s CRIO and Hospital’s CIO and has broad, high-level representation from the Academic Health Center and Hospital administration. This committee structure and governance model accommodates both changing legal requirements and the evolving needs of researchers working with protected data.

## Data Security Model

The Data security model ensures data security by focusing on two key components: culture and technology. Our culture has a deep focus on HIPAA compliance with mandatory, rigorous HIPAA training for new employees, regular refresher trainings, monthly newsletters with a focus on security, and ongoing dialogue about best practices. Building a data security awareness culture is proven in the literature to reduce data breaches. The data security model also utilizes advanced and validated secure data transfer, storage, management, and reporting technology to ensure that data security best practices, safe harbor, and HIPAA regulations are being implemented. For example, data ingested by the SCE is transmitted using secure File Transfer Protocol (sFTP) over the Secure Shell Network protocol or SSL (Secure Socket Layer)-encrypted HTTP (Hypertext Transfer Protocol) API (Application Programming Interface) endpoints. HBCD source applications and servers transmit their protected data to a landing zone in which data is validated and then integrated into the HBCD data repository and warehouse. Identifying data elements (date of birth) is obfuscated (date-shifted) before it is shared with the HBCD consortium’s downstream systems, LORIS hosted and managed by MSI (Minnesota Supercomputing Institute), and REDCap hosted and managed by the team at the University of California at San Diego.

All SCE data servers are hosted by the University Office of Information Technology (OIT) and certified to be HIPAA Compliant by the Center of Excellence for HIPAA Data at the University of Minnesota. The Health Sciences Technology (HST) office is responsible for server operations, data backups, disaster recovery, and ETL (Extract Transformation Load), application development services related to the SCE program. Several safeguards and practices, such as SANs Data Center Physical Security checklist, are implemented to ensure the security of the servers including restricted physical access which requires a valid UMN Ucard, fingerprint identification, sign-in with the data center staff, and a photo identification produced by data center staff at time of access. Also, all activities in the datacenter are recorded via video cameras and stored for auditing purposes.

Secure, role-based data access is provided to systems administrators, developers, and users through the integration of Microsoft’s Active Directory identification and authorization database. The advantage of using Active Directory is that it provides very fine-grained control over who can and cannot access a system’s data. SCE supplies a number of pre-defined Active Directory roles with varying levels of rights to access different types of information. Some key roles include: 1) Advanced Access Role: this role is granted to system and ETL developers and data analysts trough through a secure VPN pool and a secure remote desktop server to perform various system development tasks, map and integrate data, and extract data for clinicians and researchers; 2) High Risk Role: users in this subnet, who are usually researchers and clinicians with approved IRB and trainings, can access PHI/PII data but do not have the ability to extract data out of the SCE environment except by a self-service logged and audited extraction system; 3) Low Risk Role: users in this subnet, who are usually in their initial feasibility analysis phase, do not have access to PHI/PII data and users can use tools such as i2b2 to query a limited set of data elements. Changes to the firewalls for role-based access must be approved by the HST. Firewall exceptions are documented and reviewed periodically to determine their risk and need.

Researchers granted access to the SCE for the purpose of working with identified, protected data collected for use in the HBCD study must conform to the security and governance policies of the SCE. This includes appropriately scoping access to HBCD data through membership in Active Directory groups, validating that the researcher/clinicians have completed HIPAA training, signing the annual SCE Attestation Form, that the study itself has appropriate IRB approvals. Access to the SCE requires the user initiate their connection from a University of Minnesota IP address by being connected to the University’s network physically, wirelessly, or through a VPN protected by two factor authentication (2FA). An additional 2FA step is required to sign into the Citrix portal through which secure desktops are made available for accessing data within the SCE. Within the SCE, researchers have full access to data for which they are authorized. This data is stored on file servers and/or relational database data marts. A robust suite of statistical analysis tools and programs and programming languages are available within the environment for researchers to perform their research.

SCE secure virtual desktops do not have general internet access thus preventing untracked exfiltration of protected HBCD data. The secure environment enables approved extraction of data out of the SCE environment only via an audited and logged, self-service transfer tool for authorized users.